In running a print shop there are multiple considerations. If it is a university print shop, the first consideration is adherence to any relevant business or academic policies under the university. Those considerations are dependent on the specific university and the business environment. Another consideration is optimizing for quality and quantity for each person. Considerations like fairness are under quality – that the product, or the delivery of the product, is always up to specifications, regardless of circumstances. We can also optimize for quantity. Under quantity are multiple considerations, including predictability or consistency, and speed. For speed I tried to quantify it by calculating the percent difference between the total waiting times for the FIFO Queue and the other queues. The SJF queue’s time did decrease by approximately 7%, however it’s average waiting time was much longer versus both the FIFO queue and the multi-level queue. The multi-level queue performed similarly to the FIFO queue, being only about 1 percent slower than the FIFO queue. For fairness I tried to quantify it by calculating the standard deviation of the average time for every category. The multi-level queue was the most “unfair”, with the highest standard deviation, then the FIFO queue coming in second, and the shortest job being the “fairest” with the lowest standard deviation. Then finally I tried to quantify the consistency by calculating the percent difference between the average longest wait and the average time. The multi-level queue was the most inconsistent, then the FIFO queue coming in second, with the SJF queue having the least difference between the longest and the average. Based on these results I would recommend the SJF queue in most cases. If the university has a high priority for timeliness and restricting the longest times taken, then the most appropriate would be the FIFO queue or the multi-level queue. Only if the university prioritizes administrators heavily, or if administrators are a minute fraction percentage of users, would I recommend the multi-level queue exclusively.


